nrf_security: Document how to provide a custom mbedtls header config (#12150)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/nrf_security/doc/mbed_tls_header.rst

.. _nrf_security_tls_header:

User-provided Mbed TLS configuration header
###########################################

The Nordic Security Module provides a Kconfig- and CMake-based build system to configure the Mbed TLS, :ref:`nrf_cc3xx_mbedcrypto_readme`, and :ref:`nrf_oberon_readme` libraries.
The recommended method for generating the Mbed TLS header is through this build system, as it also enforces dependencies between the libraries.
However, for use cases that cannot be configured through the build system, you must provide custom Mbed TLS configuration headers.

Complete the following steps:

1. Generate the Mbed TLS configuration header.
#. Create a copy of the :file:`nrf-config.h` Mbed TLS header file in the build directory and give it a custom name.
#. Move this custom Mbed TLS header file to your source directory.
#. In the project configuration, make the following changes:

>    * `CONFIG_GENERATE_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE=n`

Reviewer: Missing period in the end of this line

   * `CONFIG_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE="custom-name-nrf-config.h"`.
   * `CONFIG_MBEDTLS_USER_CONFIG_FILE="empty_file.h"`
#. Create an empty file named :file:`empty_file.h`.
#. Edit :file:`custom-name-nrf-config.h` with your custom configuration.

> #. If not already on path, add the header files to the include path by editing the application build scripts.

Reviewer: Not sure if we landed on anything for this line..?
Should it be changed to, e.g.:
If the header files are not already in the include path, add them by editing the application build scripts.

> User-provided Mbed TLS config header
> ####################################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User-provided Mbed TLS configuration header
###########################################
```

> The Nordic Security Module provides a Kconfig and CMake based build system to configure the Mbed TLS, :ref:`nrf_cc3xx_mbedcrypto_readme`, and :ref:`nrf_oberon_readme` libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Nordic Security Module provides a Kconfig- and CMake-based build system to configure the Mbed TLS, :ref:`nrf_cc3xx_mbedcrypto_readme`, and :ref:`nrf_oberon_readme` libraries.
```

> It is recommended to let this system generate the Mbed TLS configuration header as it enforces dependencies between the libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The build system can generate the Mbed TLS configuration header, which enforces dependencies between the libraries.
```

Author: This would omit the important point that we don't recommend our customers doing this unless they have no other choice.

Reviewer 2: But on separate lines as needed for RST.

Author: This would still omit the warning that this procedure (the entirety of this .rst) is not recommended.

Reviewer 2: > Use the build system to generate the Mbed TLS header. This enforces dependencies between the libraries.

Using the imperative here automatically means that is is the recommended way. If there are other ways we _don't_ recommend and aren't entirely necessary to cover some customer cases, maybe we don't need to recommend them at all.

In other words, using a command/imperative automatically carries more weight than something like 'it is recommended'.

> However, for special use cases that cannot be configured with this system it is possible to provide custom Mbed TLS configuration headers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, for use cases that cannot be configured through this build system, you can provide custom Mbed TLS configuration headers.
```

> This can be done with the below procedure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Complete the following steps:
```

> 1. Generate the Mbed TLS configuration header
> #. Copy the Mbed TLS header named nrf-config.h out of the build directory and give it a custom name
> #. In the project configuration make the following changes:
> #. CONFIG_GENERATE_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE=n
> #. CONFIG_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE="custom-name-nrf-config.h"
> #. CONFIG_MBEDTLS_USER_CONFIG_FILE="empty_file.h"
> #. Create an empty file named empty_file.h
> #. Edit custom-name-nrf-config.h with custom configuration
> #. If not already on path, add the header files to the include path by editing the application build scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate the Mbed TLS configuration header.
#. Copy the Mbed TLS header named :file:`nrf-config.h` out of the build directory and give it a custom name.
#. In the project configuration, make the following changes::
   
   CONFIG_GENERATE_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE=n
   CONFIG_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE="custom-name-nrf-config.h"
   CONFIG_MBEDTLS_USER_CONFIG_FILE="empty_file.h"

#. Create an empty file named :file:`empty_file.h`.
#. Edit :file:`custom-name-nrf-config.h` with custom configuration.
#. If not already on the path, add the header files to the include path by editing the application build scripts.
```

Reviewer: Like Mel's suggestion for the step 2 :)

> 1. Generate the Mbed TLS configuration header
> #. Copy the Mbed TLS header named nrf-config.h out of the build directory and give it a custom name
> #. In the project configuration make the following changes:
> #. CONFIG_GENERATE_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE=n
> #. CONFIG_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE="custom-name-nrf-config.h"
> #. CONFIG_MBEDTLS_USER_CONFIG_FILE="empty_file.h"
> #. Create an empty file named empty_file.h
> #. Edit custom-name-nrf-config.h with custom configuration
> #. If not already on path, add the header files to the include path by editing the application build scripts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Generate the Mbed TLS configuration header.
#. Create a copy of the :file:`nrf-config.h` Mbed TLS header and give it a custom name.
#. In the project configuration, make the following changes:

   * `CONFIG_GENERATE_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE=n`
   * `CONFIG_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE="custom-name-nrf-config.h"` where the file name 
   * `CONFIG_MBEDTLS_USER_CONFIG_FILE="empty_file.h"`
#. Create an empty file named :file:`empty_file.h`.
#. Edit :file:`custom-name-nrf-config.h` with your custom configuration.
#. If not already on path, add the header files to the include path by editing the application build scripts.
```

'Copy' would imply that the original stays in the same place. Step 2 should have some formatting around the file name, but I'm not sure what.

I don't really understand the last line.

Author: "out of the build directory" is omitted in this rewrite. I want to make it clear to the user where the file he needs to copy/move from the build dir is located.

Author: * `CONFIG_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE="custom-name-nrf-config.h"` where the file name 

I assume "where the file name" should be omitted?

Author: "I don't really understand the last line."

How about:

If the header files are not already on the include path, then add them to path by editing the application build scripts

Reviewer 2: > * `CONFIG_MBEDTLS_CFG_FILE="custom-name-nrf-config.h"` where the file name
> 
> I assume "where the file name" should be omitted?

Ah. Sorry, yes.

Reviewer 2: > If the header files are not already on the include path, add them to path by editing the application build scripts.

Author: "Is the file they need to copy in the build directory, or do they need to save a copy outside of the build directory?"

They need to either move or copy (and rename) a file that is in the build directory into the source directory.

Author: mv build/file.c src/my-file.c
cp build/file.c src/my-file.c

either of these operations work

Reviewer 2: So:

#. Create a copy of the :file:`nrf-config.h` Mbed TLS header file in the build directory and give it a custom name.
#. Move this custom Mbed TLS header file to your source directory.

Something like that?

Author: sure

Author: applied fix

.. note::
   When providing custom Mbed TLS configuration headers with CryptoCell in use, it is important that the following criteria are still met:

   * Entropy length of 144, that is, ``#define MBEDTLS_ENTROPY_MAX_GATHER 144``.
   * SHA-256 is used for entropy, that is, ``#define MBEDTLS_ENTROPY_FORCE_SHA256`` is set.
   * Entropy max sources is set to ``1``, that is ``#define MBEDTLS_ENTROPY_MAX_SOURCES 1``.

.. note::

>    It is not supported to provide a custom Mbed TLS configuration header when TF-M is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Providing custom Mbed TLS configuration headers is not supported when TF-M is enabled.
```
